[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: At the
Chrome Dev Summit,
I showed off a
contacts app I built
which let me scroll
through hundreds of friends
all at a very snappy
60 frames per second.
Dropping hundreds or
maybe even like thousands
of DOM elements on
the screen can really
blow your performance budget.
So how do you do it?
I'm Rob Dodson.
today on Polycast,
I'm going to show you
how to scroll through
thousands of items
using nothing but HTML.
Let's check it out.
Now the trick to rendering
lots of stuff on screen
is to actually only render
a few items at a time,
and then recycle those
items super fast.
So as one item goes
off screen, we move it
back down to the bottom and
actually update its content
in the process.
This way, we don't
have to pay the cost
of creating thousands of items.
We might only create a
pool of like 20 items
and then reuse those
over and over again.
So to do this, I'm
going to be using
an element called core-list.
It's one of my absolute
most favorite elements,
and what it is is a
virtualized infinite list.
You've got a data
provider, which
is just an array
of objects, and you
can connect that to a template.
And for every instance
of that template inside
of your core-list, it
will stamp out an item
to match your data provider.
What's really cool
about this is you
can use data bindings
inside of this template.
So if I wanted to take the
name property right here,
I can just pipe it
right into my template.
Where model refers to the actual
instance and the data provider
name refers to that property.
It's really, really cool,
and what it lets you do
is very easily throw
together something
like this-- a little
mobile contacts list.
And that's exactly what we're
going to be building today.
Now that you see
how core-list works,
let's hop into the editor
and get this thing rolling.
The first thing I want to do
is hop into my bower.json file.
I've got a core-list,
core image,
and a library inside of
here called faker.js,
which I'm going to use to
generate some dummy data
for my application.
And over at my
terminal, I'm going
to run "bower install" to
add everything to my project.
Then back in my editor, I will
open up my element's HTML file
and write out an import
for the core-list element.
And the thing that I often
find tricky about working
with core-list is
making sure that I've
got the right height set on it.
In this case, I want my list to
be as big as the screen itself,
so I'm going to use some layout
attributes to pull that off.
So I will set my body element
to have a fullbleed fit layout
and vertical attributes on it.
Then we'll add a core-list
element with a flex attribute,
and what that's going to do
is tell the core-list element
to stretch to fill the body.
Now inside of my core-list,
I'm going to create a template.
And inside of that
template, I will put a div.
And give that div a
class of row and this
is where I'm going to
store all of my row items.
Inside of the row,
I'll create another div
and give it a data
binding from "model.name."
Now for the core-list
to work properly,
it needs to know the approximate
height of all of the row items
inside of it.
And by default, it
expects the row item
to be about 80 pixels high.
So in my CSS, I will
write out some styles
to force that row div that I
created to be 80 pixels high.
And if you wanted to have some
items that are different sizes,
you could also set a height
attribute on the core-list
itself, and you want that
height to be the average
of all your different items.
I made a future
video to show how
to do variable height
items if you guys are
interested in that.
Now because I want to pipe
some data into my list,
I'm going to wrap
everything inside
of an auto-binding template.
And I'm also going
to give my template
an ID of "app," so that
way I can refer to it later
using JavaScript.
Then I'm going to include the
faker.js library down here
at the bottom, basically
right above my app.js
file because that's
where I need to use it.
And I can just grab that out of
my bower components directory.
Then I will pop open
app.js, and inside of here
I'm just going to
create a function called
generateContacts.
And what it is is
just a for loop.
It's got about
1,000 items in it.
It's going to return an array
of data objects using faker.js.
Then I will grab a reference
to my auto-binding template,
and I will set the auto-binding
template's data property
equal to the return value
of generateContacts.
And the last thing I need to
do is connect my core-list
to that data.
So inside of my template,
I will just set "data="
and I will bind to the
data scope variable.
And there we go.
My data provider is connected to
my list and I'm ready to rock.
So if I hop up into
my browser, you'll
see that I'm now generating
about 1,000 items
inside this contact list,
and I can scroll through them
really fast.
And the frame rate on this
video may not be capturing it,
but try it yourself and
you should be getting
around 60 frames per second.
So the contact list
is nice and snappy,
but it's also pretty
boring to look at.
Let me drop in some profile
photos, and while I'm at it,
I'm going to show you
a really cool trick.
So I'm going to pop open
my elements.html file
and I'm going to add an import
for the core image element.
Then I'm going to add a
core image inside of my row.
I'll give my core
image some attributes.
I'll give the class of avatar.
I will tell it to pull its data
from the data provider's avatar
property.
I'm going to set a
preload attribute,
and also give it a
sizing style of cover.
I'm also going to
tell my row to lay out
all of its children
horizontally centered.
And what that means is if a row
was sort of like a rectangle,
then my avatar image would
appear over here on the left.
And then centered
with it vertically
would be all of the text
for my model's name.
Now the reason why I'm
using a core image here
instead of just using a
regular image from my avatar
is because of this
preload attribute.
Basically, because
our core-list element
is a virtualized listed that
is recycling its children over
and over again, it runs the
risk of displaying stale images
if the image has not had
a chance to load yet.
With core-image and with
this preload attribute, what
will happen is it will actually
display either a default
background color or a
stand-in background image
while it waits for the image
content to actually load in.
So rather than seeing stale
items flying through my list
but then suddenly
change, you'll see
a sort of placeholder scroll
through the list and then
the image itself will load in.
And [INAUDIBLE] my
avatar, I'm going
to give it an explicit
width and height
and also give it a border radius
so that it's nice and round.
And lastly, I'll give
it a background color
which will display while
that image is preloading.
Now if we go and preview
this in the browser,
you can see that I've
now got my avatar images.
I've got my contact
names to the right,
and it's scrolling
through really fast.
But some of you may have
noticed something a little funny
as this thing is scrolling.
Pay attention to
this guy right here,
and look at what happens
when I scroll back up.
Yeah, see that?
It's the same dude.
So what's going on here?
Well, what we've run into
is a bug in core-list.
And what do we do
when we have a bug?
Well, we bust out the--
MONSTER VOICE: Sweet hacks!
ROB DODSON: So that's exactly
what I want to do now.
I'm going to show you how to
work around this little issue.
But before I do
that, I also want
to point out that I have
included a link to the GitHub
issue down in the show notes.
You can follow along to
see when this bug is fixed.
Basically, this is a problem
I believe with object observe,
and there's two ways to fix it.
You can either create
your own Polymer element
and put your core-list inside
of this new custom element
that you've created.
This seems to fix the problem.
Or if you want, you can use
an auto-binding template
like I am here,
and then you need
to include a binding for
the list item's index.
And this can kind of
just be like a throwaway.
You can hide it somewhere.
What I'm going to do
is actually create
an attribute on both my
core image and my div,
and I'm going to set
this data index attribute
that I've made up to the
value of the list items index.
And what this does is it
basically kind of magically
pokes object [? on ?] observe,
and it fixes our little bug
here.
Now these index values
are not going to render,
so it's kind of OK to do this.
And again, this is just
sort of a workaround
for this temporary issue.
Now we can preview
this in our browser,
and you'll notice that as we
are scrolling through the page
the background images are
displaying that preloader
placeholder color.
And that's verification that
you know that it's actually
going out and fetching new
images instead of the issue
we had before where
it was recycling them.
There you have it.
With core-list, you can scroll
through a ton of content
at a buttery-smooth
60 frames per second.
That's it for today.
Be sure to click
the Subscribe button
to get more of these Polycasts.
As always, thank you
so much for watching
and I'll see you next time.